:tocdepth: 2
           
###########
Disseminate
###########

Write documents once and publish for the web, in pdf and in other formats.

Disseminate is a document processing system to generate documents in
multiple formats (html, pdf, etc.) suitable for academic and non-academic
publishing. Disseminate can be used to publish textbooks, journal articles,
articles, blogs and websites. It uses a simplified markup system as well as
extensive and extensible tag functions.

Features
--------
- **Unlimited formats**. Write documents once and generate documents in
  multiple formats (targets) in self-contained directories, including html and
  pdf. Generate books or publications for a website, in pdf format, in LaTeX,
  or in any other format.

- **Templates**. Easily render documents with different styles and appearances.

- **Macros**. An extensive library of macros and the support of user-definable
  macros.

- **Dependency management**. Include images, stylesheets and other dependencies
  and have them automatically included in the generated documents in the
  correct format.

- **Extensive tag library**. An extensive set of tags for generating specialize
  output in specific formats, including html, LaTeX and PDF.

- **Customizable tags**. The behavior of any tag can be customized and behave
  differently depending on the format (target).

- **Built-in Webserver**. Preview documents in html, pdf and other formats
  from within a browser with an easy to use interface and error messages.

- **Fast**

- **Automatic citations**. Simplified inclusion and managements of citations.

- **Abbreviations**.

- **Single compilation of LaTeX files**. Files generated by disseminate are
  self-contained. For LaTeX files, this means that each file can be compiled
  independently and only need to be compiled once.

Quick Start
-----------

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dependencies
------------
The dependencies are only required depending on which features are used.

+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Program          | Feature                                                     |
+==================+=============================================================+
| **pdflatex**     | Enables the conversion of LaTeX files (``.tex``) into pdfs. |
+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| **pdf2svg**      | Enables the conversion of pdf images into svg images. The   |
|                  | svg images are commonly used for html formats.              |
+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| **pdfcrop**      | Enables the cropping of pdf images, which is used in        |
|                  | rendering equations into svg files.                         |
+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| **rsvg-convert** | Enables the scaling of svg images.                          |
+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

Table of Contents
-----------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Overview

   overview/motivation

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Markup Language

   language/header/index
   language/tags/index
   language/macros/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Projects

   projects/document/index
   projects/templates/index
   projects/dependency_manager/index
   projects/converter/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Interfaces

   interfaces/cli/index
   interfaces/server/index
   
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Development

   development/development
   api/index


Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
